What is Flutter? Flutter is an open-source framework developed by Google. Flutter helps developers build native complied applications for mobile, web, desktop. Flutter uses Dart languages.
When starting a Flutter App you can either use ctrl+shift+p to create a new flutter application project or use the cmd and write flutter create the_folder_name, then code . to open VSC from there.
void main() --- This is the entry point of the flutter application, when flutter start running the code we write it looks for the main function first to render the UI on it to the screen. The reason why the main function is void is because it where the execution take place so it doesn't need to return any value. This function is adapted from older programming languages, for example the JAVA-like languages. So after this entry point to begin writing our code as we know Flutter is UI framework. So there is another method that will take all those widget asan argument and run it.
runApp() --- This is a function that takes in Flutter root widget as an Argument. So basically in practical the main() method calls the runApp function with the root widget argument.runApp(Widget app)
MaterialApp --- This is a top-level widget designed to fufil all design, responsiveness, navigation, typography, e.t.c requirements. So basically whatsoever you're looking for to design your app can be found in this top-level widget. They are other top-level widget we can use in flutter, for example, the CupertinoApp widget, WidgetApp widget and Customized top-level widget, i.e the one you do to fufil your app requirements. So in this Material App we can now stack in other widget we wanna put in. For example the MaterialApp can take in Theme of the app which can be used in other places of the app.
home: The home is a popular property of the MaterialApp widget that expects a widget that defines the user interface of the initial screen of the app. This can be Text, container, or Scaffold which is layout. So the home takes in any Widget, but if you're looking into structuring your app in a particular layout, you then will then have to use a Layout widget like Scaffold, which will give you different layout like appbars, body, floatingactionbuttons, drawer, bottomnavigationbar e.t.c
Scaffold: The scaffold is a basic class widget or root widget of the Material-Design system that houses the entire properties of an application. It a class that comprises of basic App styling like the appBar, drawer, floatingActionButtons, buttomAppBar e.t.c In other words, the Scaffold widget is a foundational component that provides a basic structure for building Material Design-style applications. It offers a framework for creating apps with common UI elements, such as app bars, drawers, floating action buttons, and more. The Scaffold widget is often used as the main container for your app's content.
